# Background

## What is Bash

Bash is the shell for most major Linux distributions. The name, “Bash” is modeled after the Bourne shell, a shell that was created by Stephen Bourne and distributed with Unix starting in the late 1970s. The “Bourne again shell” emulates the original Bourne shell in many ways, but also adds several new features and runs on far more operating systems than the original.

### Relative vs Absolute

There are two types of paths in bash. A relative path is a path from where you are now. It usually includes ```.``` and ```..```. An absolute path is a path from the root directory which is ```\```. The types of path that you use in your script depend on what you need and, commonly, you have path relative and absolute paths in your script.

## Bash scripting

Similar to PowerShell, Bash scripting is a plain text file that is interpreted as a bunch of commands that are executed. Unlike PowerShell, the file extensions do not matter in Linux and bash. The typical ending is ```.sh```, but you can have a file name of ```0_hello``` and you can execute as a script. It is not recommended to have an empty file ending.  
All bash scripts should start with a shebang ```#!/bin/bash``` which tells the operating system which interpreter to use.

### Comments

If you want to comment a bash script then you would use ```#```.

### Bash Script Execution

To run a bash script, you can either make it executable with ```chmod +x <script path>```, then execute it with ```./<script path>```. You can also run it without making it executable by doing ```bash <script path>```

## Variables

To set variables you use ```<variable name>=<value>```. You call a variable by adding ```$``` to the name:

```Bash
greeting="Welcome"
echo $greeting
```

You can have variables equal to the output of commands by having the command in ```$()```.

```Bash
greeting="Welcome"
command=$(echo $greeting)
echo $command
```

You can't have just ```$command``` because the greeting is not a command. There will be better examples later.

### Special Variables

There are special variables that the system will set for you. They include:

- **$0**: The name of the Bash script.
- **\$1** - **\$9**: The first 9 arguments to the Bash script.
- **$#**: How many arguments were passed to the Bash script.
- **$@**: All the arguments supplied to the Bash script.
- **$?**: The exit status of the most recently run process.
- **$$**: The process ID of the current script.
- **$USER**: The username of the user running the script.
- **$HOSTNAME**: The hostname of the machine the script is running on.
- **$SECONDS**: The number of seconds since the script was started.
- **$RANDOM**: Returns a different random number each time is it referred to.
- **$LINENO**: Returns the current line number in the Bash script.

## Getting Help

Almost all commands in Linux have a ```--help``` option if you want to see all the possible options.

## Filtering

You can filter by using a wildcard with the file extension.

```Bash
ls -l  /etc/*.txt
```
