# Find

An extremely useful command to find find with specific information is ```find```. It allows you to specify the path to search, item type you are looking for. You are also able to execute commands for every file that is found.

The basic syntax for find is:

```bash
find <path> <options>
```

## Basic options for find

You can use as many options as you want provided they do no conflict.

- **-name**: Specifies the name.
- **-type**: What you are looking for. It will be ```-type d``` for directories and ```-type f``` for files.
- **-mtime**: Last modified time.
  - If you wanted all files that have been modified in the last 7 days then it would be ```-mtime 7```.
- **-atime**: Last access time.
  - If you wanted all files that have been modified in the last 7 days then it would be ```-atime 7```.
- **-maxdepth**: How deep ```find``` recurses. By default there is not limit.
- **-iname**: Search without regard for text case.
- **-not**: Return only results that do not match the test case.
  - Can also be represented with ```!```.
- **-perm**: Searches for specific permissions on files.
  - This is file centric vs ```-executable``` which is user centric
  - Means that it looks at the file as a whole rather than specifically for a user
- **-user**: Find alls files that are owned by a specific user.
- **-group**: Find all files that are owned by a specific group.
- **-size**: Returns all files in the size specified.
  - Use ```size +10M``` to get all files over 10MB.
  - Use ```size -50M``` to get all files under 50MB.
- **-exec**: Executes commands on the files found.
- **-print**: Prints the filename.
- **-O**: Different Optimizations for find
  - **-O1**: Filter based on file name first. (Default)
  - **-O2**: File name first, then file-type.
  - **-O3**: Allow find to automatically re-order the search based on efficient use of resources and likelihood of success.

## Find Examples

If you wanted to find all files in the home folder that were over 10MBs:

```bash
find /home/ -size +10M -type f
```

### Count

If you want to count all those files:

```bash
find /home/ -size +10M -type f -printf '.' | wc -c
```

### Extensions

To get all files that end in .log

```bash
find /var/log/ -name "*.log"
```

### Preforming actions on found items

If you want to exec a command for each item that you find:

```bash
find /var/log -name "*.log" -exec cp {} /home/user/copy/ \;
```

the ```{}``` represents the file that is found. ```\;``` needs to be added to the end of each exec statement to sign the end of it. You can include multiple `exec` commands on the same line.

### Find to an array

Outputting the results of find to an array is difficult. The end result looks like:

```bash
path="/"
totalexe=$()
while IFS=  read -r -d $'\0'; do
    totalexe+=("$REPLY")
done < <(find $path -executable -print0)
```

This snippet creates an array called totalexe. The find command finds all the executable files starting from ```/``` or the root partition.
